My memories of my grandmother all involve her either cooking or knitting. 
She must have truly believed the saying: "idle hands are the devil's playground" because she always had some project she was working on.
She took great joy in teaching her grandchildren. 
I spent many afternoons curled up on the couch, awkwardly holding giant knittle needles while she patiently showed me how to knit. 
My first few projects were lumpy, to say the least. 
However, I cherished my time spent with grandma, and appreciated the beautiful handknit sweaters she gifted me. 

While I took more to sewing as a teenager, I returned to knitting in college.
I went to school in upstate New York, near Rhinebeck. 
Rhinebeck is the location of an annual sheep and wool festival. 
This festival is attended by knitting enthusiasts from all over the world. 
There, I fell in love with wool and knitting. 
I appreciated having a craft I could take with me, and having something to keep me occupied through endless lectures and colloqiums as I began a Ph.D. program. 

One of the things I love about knitting is it's varied history and the plethora of different knitting styles and traditions. 
Here, I will explain a little bit about the origins of knitting, and a few of the more recognized styles of knitting. 

A Brief History of Knitting

While weaving dates back to the Paleolithic era (http://www.historyofclothing.com/making-clothing/history-of-weaving/), knitting is a more recent craft. 
Knitting is thought to have originated in the Middle East, and then spread to Europe via trade routes across the Mediterranean ( Zilboorg, Anna. Fancy Feet: Traditional Knitting Patterns of Turkey. Lark Book. 1994. ISBN 9780937274750. Paperback edition titled Simply Socks: 45 Traditional Turkish Patterns to Knit. Lark Books. 2001. ISBN 9781887374590.)
While the earliest known knitted artifact is from the 11th century CE in Egypt (Tissus d'Égypte: témoins du monde arabe, VIIIe. - XVe. siècles. Collection Bouvier, Exposition 1993-1994, Musée d'art et d'histoire à Genève. 1994, Institut du monde arabe à Paris. ISBN 9782908528527.)
knitting is thought to predate this artifact. 
The complexity of the construction techniques and intricate design in the socks suggest that knitting was already well-practices at the time the socks were made ( "Knitty: editorial spring 06". www.knitty.com.)

In Europe, the oldest examples of knitting were found in a Spanish tomb sealed in 1275, when Spain was under Moorish control.
These items are thought to be made by Muslim knitters employed by Spanish royalty. 
Hubert, Margaret (2010). The Complete Photo Guide to Knitting. Minneapolis, Minnesota: Creative Publishing international. p. 7. ISBN 9781589235243.

Aran Jumper

The Aran jumper is a style of sweater named after, and originating from, the Aran Islands. 
The Aran Islands are located off the west coast of Ireland. 
Lambert, Gail Ann (2002). The Taxonomy of Sweater Structure and Their Origins (PDF) (Thesis). Raleigh: North Carolina State University. Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 March 2007. Retrieved 4 March 2007.
 Gillow, John; Bryan Sentance (1999). World Textiles: A Visual Guide to Traditional Techniques. London: Thames & Hudson Ltd. pp. 50–51. ISBN 0-500-01950-9.
Aran jumpers are traditionally off-white sweaters, with extensive symetrical cable patterns across the body and sleeves. 
Their off-white color is due to the the undyed, cream-colored bainin yarn they are made from.
Bainin yarn is traditionally made of unscoured wool, which still contains lanolin.
Lanolin is a naturally ocurring oil in wool that makes Aran jumpers naturally water-resistant. 

Aran jumpers are a relatively recent invention. 
The style was developed in the late 19th century, when fishermen from other regions of the British Isles came to the Aran Islands to train local fishermen in better fishing practices. 
 "Regional Knitting in the British Isles & Ireland". London: The Victoria and Albert Museum. Archived from the original on 27 October 2007. Retrieved 24 February2007.
These fishermen brought the already established tradition of Gurnsey jumpers with them. 
These jumpers have a similar cable pattern to Aran jumpers, however the cables are limited to only the yoke of the sweater (the chest region). 
They are also made of a different, finer wool than the bainin yarn available in Aran. 
Local Aran women adopted the style, and used their thicker, local wool, all-over cables, and a slightly different sweater construction technique.

Icelandic Yoke Sweaters

There is a long history of knitting in Iceland. 
By the 1500's, hand knit items were used for trade, and even as a type of currency (Lambert 2002, p. 15)
Knitting was embedded in the family culture in Iceland, and a whole family affari.
Men usually prepared fleece for spinning, women spun and died the yarn, and children were taught to knit as young as four.
Families would gather in the evening to knit and listen to folklore (Pagoldh, 1987)

Iceland is known for its Lopi yarn. 
Lopi yarn is made from the wool of Icelandic sheep, which have a unique double coat.
The outer coarse wool and softer, finner inner wool is combined to make a durable yarn that produces sweaters that can be worn as coats (Dawson, 1988)

The traditional Icelandic sweater is made of Lopi yarn, usually out of naturally colored wool.
The most well-known style of sweater, with a heavily patterned yoke, emerged in the late 1950's (p. 17). 

Fair Isle Sweaters

Fair Isle is perhaps the most well-known style of patterned knitting, however the origins of the technique are disputed. 
Fair Isle is a form of stranded color knitting, in which multiple (usually only two) strands of different colored yarn are held and knit at the same time. 
Color bands of complex patterns are produced without every using more than two colors at a time in any given row (Starmore, 1988).
Fair Isle owes its name to Fair Isle, the most southernly island of the Shetland Islands off the northeast coast of Scotland. 

Dating back to the 16th century, knitting stockings or lace was a common wasy for families to supplement their income.  
However, demand fell with the introduction of machine knitting. (p. 48)
The Fair Isle style of knitting was eventually developed as a replacement.

There is no evidence of Fair Isle knitting until the 1850's, however it is unclear whether the earliest examples even originated from Fair Isle. 
McGregor (1981) theorizes that the Fair Isle style was heavily influenced by knitting from the Baltic region, including Estonia, Lithuania, Russian, and Finalnd. 
In these Baltic regions, knitting two color stranded patterns was already well-established. 
McGregor argues that open trade routes brought examples of this knitting technique to Fair Isle, where it was adapted. 
